# helloworld
some thoughts when i am now 42
previously i worked on two projects: one was a credit rating project that aimed at giving credit users different scores representing their different risks of default of the credit they had got. This project actually at around 10 years agos was very popular in China and maybe around the world, the popular alias was big-data-credit at that time. I worked on that for about three years and more than twe years of that three year was dedicated to working for companies issuing credit and credit agencies. My direct feeling was that using data to solve the credit issuing problem may be valid for micro-level but invalid to detect macro-level risks which might be crucial for the real business. For thoses important things in the future, eg, policies, economic crisises, credit models will not be capable of incorporating. Those are the macro-level risks I mentioned above. In fact, after 2018, chinese government's attitude towards internet financial companies turned around severely from surpportive to restrctive and the condition of the high risk lending industry(this industry was mainly played by those internet companies, so this industry was also called internet finance that time) drastically deteriorated. The credit issuers were issuing too much before 2018 when the industry was booming and promising and at that time most of the credit collecting methods were allowed or at least not forbidened by the goverment. After 2018, strong collectting methods were prohibited, and the economic condition of the clients worsened partly because of the high liabibility burdens partly because of the economic downward movement that time, all of these made the credit issuers very hard to collect money back and of course leaded to a disaster for the industry. So what the credit models could pretell us about all this? no ,nothing important. So the most important factor for the credit industry especially in a volatile environment dose not lie in the data, it is about clever foresight.  
